LEAGUE_ARCHIVING_GUIDE.md, before:

# League Archiving & Renewal Guide

## Overview

The league archiving and renewal system allows commissioners to:
1. **Archive completed leagues** - Automatically or manually mark seasons as complete
2. **Renew leagues** - Create new seasons with identical settings and members

## How It Works

### Automatic Archiving

**Trigger:** January 1st at midnight (Celery Beat scheduled task)

The `archive_old_leagues()` task:
- Finds all active leagues
- Checks if playoff weeks have completed for the current season
- Sets `is_active = False` for completed leagues
- Preserves all historical data

### Manual League Renewal

**Access:** `/leagues/<league_id>/renew/` (Commissioner only)

The renewal process:
1. Commissioner views archived league
2. Navigates to "Renew League" page
3. Reviews what will be transferred
4. Confirms renewal
5. New league created with:
   - Fresh name: "[Original Name] - 2027"
   - Identical settings and scoring rules
   - New rosters (empty, ready for draft)
   - All previous team owners invited

## Detailed Features

### What Gets Renewed ✓

- **League Settings:**
  - Roster format (Best Ball or Traditional)
  - Max teams, roster size
  - Position slots (forwards, defense, goalies)
  - Playoff configuration (weeks, teams)
  - Waiver system (enabled/disabled)
  - Playoff reseeding rules

- **Scoring Rules:**
  - All player scoring settings (goals, assists, loose balls, etc.)
  - All goalie scoring settings (wins, saves, goals against, etc.)
  - Multi-game week scoring method

- **Members:**
  - All previous team owners invited to new league
  - Commissioner remains the same

### What Doesn't Renew ✗

- Team rosters (cleared for new draft)
- Waiver claims and trades
- Historical scores and statistics
- Current week assignments

### What's Preserved

- Original league remains archived
- All historical data accessible
- Historical statistics remain for reference
- Shows in user's "Archived Leagues" section

## Views and Templates

### Renewal View
- **File:** `web/views.py` - `renew_league()` function
- **Permission:** Commissioner only
- **Template:** `web/templates/web/renew_league.html`
- **Route:** `/leagues/<league_id>/renew/`

**Features:**
- Confirmation form to prevent accidental renewal
- Summary of current league settings
- List of what will be renewed
- Explanation of process

### Updated League List
- **File:** `web/views.py` - `league_list()` function
- **Changes:** 
  - Separates active and archived leagues
  - User's leagues show both active and archived
  - Public browse only shows active leagues
  - Allows searching archived leagues by code

## Code Implementation

### Tasks (`web/tasks.py`)

#### `archive_old_leagues()`
```python
@shared_task
def archive_old_leagues():
    # Marks completed leagues as inactive
    # Called: January 1st (configurable in celery.py)
```

#### `renew_league(old_league_id, new_season=None)`
```python
def renew_league(old_league_id, new_season=None):
    # Creates new league with same settings
    # Called by: renew_league view
    # Returns: New League object or None
```

### Models (`web/models.py`)

**League Model Fields:**
- `is_active` (Boolean) - Tracks if league is active or archived
- All scoring and configuration fields are copied to new leagues

### Forms (`web/forms.py`)

#### `LeagueRenewalForm`
- Single checkbox confirmation field
- Dynamic label showing league name and next season
- Prevents accidental renewals

### URLs (`web/urls.py`)

```python
path('leagues/<int:league_id>/renew/', renew_league, name='renew_league')
```

### Celery Schedule (`config/celery.py`)

```python
'archive-old-leagues': {
    'task': 'web.tasks.archive_old_leagues',
    'schedule': crontab(month_of_year='1', day_of_month=1, hour=0, minute=0),
}
```

## Database Impact

### No Migration Required
The `is_active` field already exists on the League model, so no new migration is needed.

### Data Preservation
- Old leagues remain in database with `is_active=False`
- All foreign keys intact
- Historical rosters, trades, waivers, stats all preserved
- New league has separate primary key

## Testing

### Test Archive Task
```bash
python manage.py shell
from web.tasks import archive_old_leagues
archive_old_leagues()  # Test execution
```

### Test Renewal Function
```bash
python manage.py shell
from web.tasks import renew_league
from web.models import League
old_league = League.objects.first()
new_league = renew_league(old_league.id)
print(f"Created: {new_league.name}")
```

### Test UI
1. Create test league and mark `is_active=False` in admin
2. Log in as commissioner
3. Navigate to archived league
4. Click "Renew League"
5. Fill form and submit
6. Verify new league created with same settings

## Configuration

### Change Archive Schedule
Edit `config/celery.py`:
```python
'archive-old-leagues': {
    'schedule': crontab(month_of_year='1', day_of_month=1, hour=0, minute=0),
}
```

**Examples:**
- First of each month: `crontab(day_of_month=1, hour=0, minute=0)`
- Daily at 2 AM: `crontab(hour=2, minute=0)`
- Specific date: `crontab(month_of_year='1', day_of_month=1, hour=0, minute=0)`

### Automatic Season Year
Renewal defaults to next calendar year. Override in code:
```python
new_league = renew_league(league_id, new_season=2027)
```

## Error Handling

Both functions include comprehensive error logging:
- League not found
- Database errors
- Invalid parameters

Check Celery logs for errors:
```bash
celery -A config worker --loglevel=info
```

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements:
- UI button on league detail page for commissioners
- Bulk renewal (multiple leagues at once)
- Import team members from previous league (optional checkbox)
- Schedule automatic renewal without commissioner action
- Copy draft settings from previous season
- Pre-populate team names based on historical rosters

## Troubleshooting

### Archive Task Not Running
1. Verify Celery Beat is running: `celery -A config beat`
2. Check logs for errors
3. Manually run: `python manage.py shell` then `from web.tasks import archive_old_leagues; archive_old_leagues()`

### Renewal Creating Duplicate League
- Database transaction issue - check logs
- Verify League with same name doesn't exist
- Check unique_id constraint

### New League Not Showing in UI
- Verify `is_active=True` on new league
- Check filters in league_list view
- Verify user permissions/associations

## Related Documentation

- [League Management](DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md#league-management)
- [Celery Tasks](DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md#celery-tasks)
- [Database Schema](PRODUCTION_SETUP_COMPLETE.md#database-schema)

Commit message:

Documentation: update archiving schedule and timing details
- Archiving now happens Monday after week 21 ends, not Jan 1
- Task runs daily at 3 AM to check for season end
- Updated examples and trigger descriptions
- Clarifies automatic detection based on Week calendar

LEAGUE_ARCHIVING_GUIDE.md, after:

# League Archiving & Renewal Guide

## Overview

The league archiving and renewal system allows commissioners to:
1. **Archive completed leagues** - Automatically after the NLL season ends (Monday after week 21)
2. **Renew leagues** - Create new seasons with identical settings and members

## How It Works

### Automatic Archiving

**Trigger:** Daily at 3 AM (Celery Beat scheduled task)

The `archive_old_leagues()` task:
- Runs every day to check if the season has ended
- Finds the final week of the season (highest week_number)
- Checks if current date is after final week end + 3 days (Monday after games)
- Sets `is_active = False` for completed leagues
- Preserves all historical data

**Timing:**
- NLL season typically ends around week 21 in December
- The Monday after the final games conclude, the league is automatically archived
- At that point, commissioners see the "Renew League" button on the league detail page

### Manual League Renewal

**Access:** `/leagues/<league_id>/renew/` (Commissioner only after archiving)

**Trigger:** Only appears after league is archived

The renewal process:
1. Season ends, league is automatically archived
2. Commissioner visits league detail page
3. "Renew League" button appears (archived leagues only)
4. Navigates to renewal confirmation page
5. Reviews what will be transferred
6. Confirms renewal
7. New league created with:
   - Fresh name: "[Original Name] - 2027"
   - Identical settings and scoring rules
   - New rosters (empty, ready for draft)
   - All previous team owners invited

## Detailed Features

### What Gets Renewed ✓

- **League Settings:**
  - Roster format (Best Ball or Traditional)
  - Max teams, roster size
  - Position slots (forwards, defense, goalies)
  - Playoff configuration (weeks, teams)
  - Waiver system (enabled/disabled)
  - Playoff reseeding rules

- **Scoring Rules:**
  - All player scoring settings (goals, assists, loose balls, etc.)
  - All goalie scoring settings (wins, saves, goals against, etc.)
  - Multi-game week scoring method

- **Members:**
  - All previous team owners invited to new league
  - Commissioner remains the same

### What Doesn't Renew ✗

- Team rosters (cleared for new draft)
- Waiver claims and trades
- Historical scores and statistics
- Current week assignments

### What's Preserved

- Original league remains archived
- All historical data accessible
- Historical statistics remain for reference
- Shows in user's "Archived Leagues" section

## Views and Templates

### Renewal View
- **File:** `web/views.py` - `renew_league()` function
- **Permission:** Commissioner only
- **Template:** `web/templates/web/renew_league.html`
- **Route:** `/leagues/<league_id>/renew/`

**Features:**
- Confirmation form to prevent accidental renewal
- Summary of current league settings
- List of what will be renewed
- Explanation of process

### Updated League List
- **File:** `web/views.py` - `league_list()` function
- **Changes:** 
  - Separates active and archived leagues
  - User's leagues show both active and archived
  - Public browse only shows active leagues
  - Allows searching archived leagues by code

## Code Implementation

### Tasks (`web/tasks.py`)

#### `archive_old_leagues()`
```python
@shared_task
def archive_old_leagues():
    # Marks completed leagues as inactive after season ends
    # Checks if current date > final week end + 3 days (Monday after games)
    # Called: Daily at 3 AM
```

#### `renew_league(old_league_id, new_season=None)`
```python
def renew_league(old_league_id, new_season=None):
    # Creates new league with same settings
    # Called by: renew_league view
    # Returns: New League object or None
```

### Models (`web/models.py`)

**League Model Fields:**
- `is_active` (Boolean) - Tracks if league is active or archived
- All scoring and configuration fields are copied to new leagues

### Forms (`web/forms.py`)

#### `LeagueRenewalForm`
- Single checkbox confirmation field
- Dynamic label showing league name and next season
- Prevents accidental renewals

### URLs (`web/urls.py`)

```python
path('leagues/<int:league_id>/renew/', renew_league, name='renew_league')
```

### Celery Schedule (`config/celery.py`)

```python
'archive-old-leagues': {
    'task': 'web.tasks.archive_old_leagues',
    'schedule': crontab(month_of_year='1', day_of_month=1, hour=0, minute=0),
}
```

## Database Impact

### No Migration Required
The `is_active` field already exists on the League model, so no new migration is needed.

### Data Preservation
- Old leagues remain in database with `is_active=False`
- All foreign keys intact
- Historical rosters, trades, waivers, stats all preserved
- New league has separate primary key

## Testing

### Test Archive Task
```bash
python manage.py shell
from web.tasks import archive_old_leagues
archive_old_leagues()  # Test execution
```

### Test Renewal Function
```bash
python manage.py shell
from web.tasks import renew_league
from web.models import League
old_league = League.objects.first()
new_league = renew_league(old_league.id)
print(f"Created: {new_league.name}")
```

### Test UI
1. Create test league and mark `is_active=False` in admin
2. Log in as commissioner
3. Navigate to archived league
4. Click "Renew League"
5. Fill form and submit
6. Verify new league created with same settings

## Configuration

### Change Archive Schedule
Edit `config/celery.py`:
```python
'archive-old-leagues': {
    'task': 'web.tasks.archive_old_leagues',
    'schedule': crontab(hour=3, minute=0),  # Daily at 3 AM - checks for season end
}
```

The task runs daily and automatically detects when the season ends by checking the Week calendar.

### Automatic Season Year
Renewal defaults to next calendar year. Override in code:
```python
new_league = renew_league(league_id, new_season=2027)
```

## Error Handling

Both functions include comprehensive error logging:
- League not found
- Database errors
- Invalid parameters

Check Celery logs for errors:
```bash
celery -A config worker --loglevel=info
```

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements:
- UI button on league detail page for commissioners
- Bulk renewal (multiple leagues at once)
- Import team members from previous league (optional checkbox)
- Schedule automatic renewal without commissioner action
- Copy draft settings from previous season
- Pre-populate team names based on historical rosters

## Troubleshooting

### Archive Task Not Running
1. Verify Celery Beat is running: `celery -A config beat`
2. Check logs for errors
3. Manually run: `python manage.py shell` then `from web.tasks import archive_old_leagues; archive_old_leagues()`

### Renewal Creating Duplicate League
- Database transaction issue - check logs
- Verify League with same name doesn't exist
- Check unique_id constraint

### New League Not Showing in UI
- Verify `is_active=True` on new league
- Check filters in league_list view
- Verify user permissions/associations

## Related Documentation

- [League Management](DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md#league-management)
- [Celery Tasks](DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md#celery-tasks)
- [Database Schema](PRODUCTION_SETUP_COMPLETE.md#database-schema)
